Tag: unbiased ratings
Question: 1000 youtube videos. 100 reviewers. each reviewer rate 100 video and gives each a score from 1-10. how do you find a way to get unbiased ratings

Answer:
To get unbiased ratings, we need to address the following challenges:
Reviewer bias: Each reviewer may have a different rating style (e.g., some might be more generous or harsh than others).
Video selection bias: Reviewers may not rate all 1000 videos, but rather a subset of 100 videos that might not be representative of the entire dataset.
Here's a step-by-step approach to mitigate these biases and obtain unbiased ratings:
Step 1: Data Collection
Collect the ratings from each reviewer for their assigned 100 videos. Store the data in a matrix with dimensions 100 (reviewers) x 1000 (videos), where each cell contains the rating given by a reviewer to a video. Missing values will represent unrated videos.
Step 2: Normalization
To account for reviewer bias, normalize each reviewer's ratings by subtracting their mean rating and dividing by their standard deviation. This will help to:
Center the ratings around zero, reducing the impact of individual reviewer biases.
Scale the ratings to have similar variances, making them more comparable across reviewers.
Python
import numpy as np
# Assume 'ratings' is the 100x1000 matrix of ratings
normalized_ratings = (ratings - np.mean(ratings, axis=1, keepdims=True)) / np.std(ratings, axis=1, keepdims=True)
Step 3: Imputation
To address video selection bias, impute missing ratings using a suitable method, such as:
Mean imputation: Replace missing values with the average rating of the corresponding video across all reviewers who rated it.
Matrix factorization: Use techniques like Singular Value Decomposition (SVD) or Non-negative Matrix Factorization (NMF) to estimate missing ratings based on patterns in the existing data.
Python
from sklearn.impute import SimpleImputer
imputer = SimpleImputer(strategy='mean')
imputed_ratings = imputer.fit_transform(normalized_ratings)
Step 4: Aggregation
Calculate the overall rating for each video by aggregating the imputed ratings across all reviewers. You can use methods like:
Average rating: Calculate the mean rating for each video.
Weighted average rating: Assign weights to each reviewer based on their reliability or expertise, and calculate the weighted average rating for each video.
Python
overall_ratings = np.mean(imputed_ratings, axis=0)
Step 5: Ranking
Rank the videos based on their overall ratings. You can use various ranking algorithms, such as:
Simple ranking: Rank videos based on their overall ratings in descending order.
Bayesian ranking: Use Bayesian methods to model the uncertainty in the ratings and rank videos accordingly.
By following these steps, you can obtain unbiased ratings that account for reviewer bias and video selection bias, providing a more accurate representation of the videos' quality.
